## FARMER NET IOT
Agriculture, food, and related industries contributed $1.109 trillion to the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) in 2019, a 5.2-percent share. Yet farmers are failing to meet the food demands of a growing population. Climate change which contributes to long-term environmental problems, such as groundwater depletion and soil degradation, will greatly affect our food and agriculture production systems.

Food demand is directly correlated to the rising population and income. By 2050, the world population will be 9.1 billion, up from 7.4 billion in 2016. According to the UN, farmers must increase food production by 70 percent compared to 2007 levels to meet the needs of the larger population.
Farmers need to grow more with less water, fertilizers, and manual labour. Currently, agriculture accounts for 70 percent of all freshwater withdrawals globally and an even higher share of “consumptive water use” due to the evapotranspiration of crops. With deforestation from agriculture leads to desertification, soil erosion, and fewer crops. Heat and water scarcity will have a direct impact on animal health and will also reduce the quality and supply of crops.  Our current food system is fragile and unsustainable failing farmers, and people everywhere. 

Farmers who are the backbone of our society often live on the edge of poverty. The average U.S. poultry grower takes out nearly $700,000 in loans, using their home and land as collateral for insurance, yet their median net income is a mere $13,140. The suicide rate among US farmers is, on average, 3.5 times that of the general population. As developers,  need to step in and provide farmers with a solution. Achieving this environmental goal means increasing the availability of nutritious food, making food more affordable and reducing inequities in access to food.

## HOW WE BUILD IT 
Farmer net is the solution. The future of farming with computer vision precision agriculture. The IoT solution include smart tractors, aerial drones, and green houses collecting data providing actionable insights for farmers everywhere. We can collect real-time data capture rich information using cameras and machine learning create real-time insights an automated action without farmers intervention. 

IoT greenhouse as shown on the right we have digital control temperature with 220 Volt automatic irrigation water pump for watering the plants humidity pH and CO2 sensor with digital display. Innovative smart tractor includes code remote control and sensors for data collection, 4 wheel motor, drive with a microcontroller USB board, we have infrared motor control with Bluetooth, PS2 handles,  two arm servos, ultrasonic infrared sensors, and cameras for obstacle avoidance and infrared tracking.

Using Microsoft Azure IoT hub we can form a cloud gateway for art telemetry data from our smart tractor frontline remote sensors aerial drone and Raspberry Pi. Microsoft Azure help bridge the digital divide for farmers who need technological innovations using their easy to use interface and reporting tools we can analyze farm data like temperature, humidity, precipitation, and crop health in addition to data collected from our tractor or aerial drone this data includes accelerometer, magnetometer, and gyroscope in addition to longitude and latitude coordinates. This will be helpful for farmers deciding where to sell their food in addition to land use optimization and supply chain optimization. From our data storage pipeline we can link to Microsoft's custom vision and Tensorflow. Farmer Nets computer vision model allows farmers to remotely monitor farm land boundary patterns for the tractor in addition to crop health monitoring for the IoT greenhouse.

IoT in the cloud allows for easy farm management merging remote data from multiple IoT devices. The back end to our data log in with an SSH client from this SSH client we will have access via a remote deployment of our IoT server with Microsoft Remote Desktops.We connect to our remote IoT simulator using a primary connection string and this will allow us to access the telemetry data via a simulator using Raspberry Pi is there IoT online simulator we can send messages to our IoT devices. 

Farmers can now make decisions like past diagnosis price predictions an harvest scheduling with data driven analytics. Sustainability Calculator to calculate our carbon footprint from our farm using sample data. We can also connect to food retail Geo analytics here we can look at the closest farmer markets near our location.With power business intelligence we can share our actionable insights discovered from our data with automated reporting with PowerPoints and PDFs. Precision agriculture using IoT we can trigger actions based off of specific conditions in your IoT setup. Here we are setting carbon sequestered and temperature set to a limit being sent to our email. 




## CHALLENGES

Given the time restrains of the hackathon, and the limited resources – it was challenging connecting the hardware with Microsoft Azure IoT hub we can form a cloud gateway for art telemetry data from our smart tractor frontline remote sensors aerial drone and Raspberry Pi. Microsoft Azure help bridge the digital divide for farmers who need technological innovations using their easy to use interface and reporting tools we can analyze farm data like temperature, humidity, precipitation, and crop health in addition to data collected from our tractor or aerial drone this data includes accelerometer, magnetometer, and gyroscope in addition to longitude and latitude coordinates. Data from the simulators were extremely helpful

## WHAT WE LEARNED

Hacking for sustainability with Microsoft Azure and Farmer Net has advanced my IoT development skills. As a developer, I learned to collect real-time data capture rich information using cameras and machine learning create real-time insights an automated action without intervention.
IoT in the cloud allows for easy farm management merging remote data from multiple IoT devices. The back end to our data log in with an SSH client from this SSH client we will have access via a remote deployment of our IoT server with Microsoft Remote Desktops.
We connect to our remote IoT simulator using a primary connection string and this will allow us to access the telemetry data via a simulator using Raspberry Pi is there IoT online simulator we can send messages to our IoT devices.
Farmers can now make decisions like past diagnosis price predictions an harvest scheduling with data driven analytics. Sustainability Calculator to calculate our carbon footprint from our farm using sample data. We can also connect to food retail Geo analytics here we can look at the closest farmer markets near our location.

## ACCOMPLISHMENTS

Predictive Maintenance. Building the demo for the tractor with the sensor, in addition to the plant irrigaton system for the IOT greenhouse. Rather than waiting to make real time decisions or for farm equipment to fail, IoT sensors on the farmland can track temperature, humidity, pest/diseases, and other data points. The Azure IOT architecture diagram took a lot of time to make. Farmers will spend less time on manual labour and more time making data driven decisions.
Inventory and Supply Chain Management. Innovative smart tractor includes code remote control and sensors for data collection, 4 wheel motor, drive with a microcontroller USB board, we have infrared motor control with Bluetooth, PS2 handles, two arm servos, ultrasonic infrared sensors, and cameras for obstacle avoidance and infrared tracking. Tractor dashboard helps with predicting crop inventory and locating the closest distanced farmer market reducing CO2 from transporting food and food waste.
Customer Insights and Product Innovation by Connecting Azure's Power BI to our farm telemetry data. Innovation accelerates a farmer's ability to segment customers, customize products, set prices to better capture value, and provide value-added services. With power business intelligence Farmer net can share our actionable insights discovered from our data with automated reporting with PowerPoints and PDFs. Precision agriculture using IoT we can trigger actions based off of specific conditions in your IoT setup. Here we are setting carbon sequestered and temperature set to a limit being sent to our email.
